All right so let's do some exercises on linear functions and slope.
So let's start with draw the graph of the line passing through the points 3 5 and 6 8.
All right so we're talking about a linear function.
We know that because the graph is a line and it's just drawing the graph of this line.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right.
So there shouldn't be too bad.
All we need to do here is draw our accreditation plain.
Right now we have our x axis and y axis.
And basically what we do is we just plot the two points three five and six eight and then we draw a
line through them and that's it.
So for the first point it's three five.
So that means we move three to the right one to three that's in the x axis and then 5 up for the y axis
because it's positive five.
So one two three four five.
All right.
That is the points 3 5.
And then let's plug the other point which is 6 8.
So we'll move six to the right on the x axis because it's positive and ate up on the y axis because
it's positive.
So this is three.
We're going to move four five six and then we're going to move 8 up.
So this is five six seven eight.
This is our next point six eight.
So after this all we need to do is connect the dots.
And that is going to give us the graph of our line so it should look something like this.
I don't draw exactly straight lines as you know by now but this is a good representation of what the
line looks like.
So this line right here is the line that goes through these two points three five and six eight.
All right so let's do another one of these.
Draw the graph of the line passing through the points and then we get another two points points to negative
three and negative 5 and 2.
So go ahead and pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so same drill.
Let's see if you got this one.
So we have X Xs and the y axis and let's go ahead and plot these points.
So the first point is two negative three.
So that's two to the right on the x axis 1 2 and then three down because that 3 is negative.
All right.
So that's two to the right and then three down.
So one two three.
All right.
And then we have our next point which is negative 5 and 2.
So that's five to the left on the x axis because this x is negative and 2 up on the y axis.
So we start here we move five to the left.
So that's one two three four five.
And then we move two up.
And the y axis 1 and 2.
All right.
Let me just mark these points.
This one down here is 2 negative 3.
And this one up here is negative 5 to and it will just draw a line connecting the two points.
So there should be something like this and that is the line that connects these two points.
That is the graph of the linear function.
We are done.
All right so now that we graphed are functions let's try a different sort of problem.
Now we have find the slope of the line that passes through the two points.
Negative three 10 and 5 negative 7.
So we are finding here the slope of the line.
You don't need to graph anything.
Boy you need to find the inclination of the line that touches these two points.
In other words the slope.
So go ahead and pause the video and give this one a shot.
All right.
So we're finding this slope.
How do we find slope.
Remember slope equals Well first of all a slope is referred to as m.
Right.
And slope equals rise overrun and there's a formula for this race overrun which we covered in the tutorial
difference in a Y over difference in X..
Right.
So it's wide to mine is why a one over to minus x 1 so Rice is the wise and run is the Xs.
OK.
So we just plug in the coordinates of these two points into this formula right.
Let's call this point 1 and let's call this point 2.
This is X-1.
This is why I won this is x 2.
And this is why two so slope is equal to.
So we have y2 which is negative 7
minus y one which is 10
over x 2 which is 5
minus x 1 so minus negative 3.
So mine is negative 3
negative 7 minus 10.
So remember this gets even more negative.
Oh $7.
And you spend 10 more.
Now you owe 17.
So that's negative 17 and on the bottom.
Check it out.
So we have five minus negative three.
Remember that when you have a negative in front of another negative negative times a negative becomes
a positive.
So down here it actually becomes five plus three.
All right.
That's what you get down here.
Negative times a negative becomes a positive.
So plus three and then just to get a final answer.
This is negative 17 over 8.
That is the slope of the line that touches those two points.
All right.
So here we have another example for slope.
Find the slope of the line that passes through the points 6 8 and 2 4.
And again we're going to call this point point 1.
So here we have X and Y 1 and we're going to call this point 2.
So here we have x 2 and a y 2.
So go ahead and find this slope.
Pause the video and give it a shot.
All right so now let's give it a shot together.
So we have again that slope equals difference and why.
Why two minds why one over x two minus x 1.
So again we're just plugging in numbers into this function here.
So again what's white two whites who is four minus why one which is eight
over x 2 which is two
and x 1 which is 6.
So we have four minus eight is negative four and two minus six is negative four.
Check it out.
Remember that a negative over a negative gives you a positive.
So we're going to get a positive result.
And for over 4 it is just one the slope of this line is just a simple one.
That's it for this problem.